Now we can learn about streams in Node.js.
Streams are a handy way
of shuffling data around.
So if you need to build some IO glue,
where you've got some sources of data,
you've got some destinations
where the data needs to go.
You've got some steps in between,
streams are pretty good fit.
Some examples of that might be if you need
to use compression, if you need to add
different kinds of transformations
to build the data pipeline.
Streams are fantastic for
that kind of problem.
Streams are a really old idea.
This is a quote from
1964 from Doug McIlroy
who is working on what would
become the Unix system.
Back then it was still called Multics,
which was a group project between MIT,
Bell Labs, and General Electric.
But then AT&T split off and
made Unix in 1869.
But anyways, just read this quote
because it's a pretty fantastic
idea about like chaining programs
together with pipes which is one
of the main influences of node js streams.
So, we should have some ways of
connecting programs like a garden hose,
screw in another segment when it becomes
necessary to massage data in another way.
This is the way of IO also.
This idea is that instead of
building these like big pieces that
will kind of like deal
with the entire data
pipeline internally, you can split
them out into separate pieces.
That's kind of like do one thing and
do it well.
And handoff that information to
the next piece in the pipeline,
which is what pipes let you do in Unix.
And it's also what the stream
implementation in Node.js
which has a method called pipe does.
It's very similar.
Another great reason to use streams aside
from just the logical separation, which is
useful, is that streams operate on data
in a kind of like piecewise manner.
So chunk by chunk.
So instead of having to passing very
large objects and to keep a lot of
things in memory, with streams you can
deal with like much smaller pieces.
So this is really useful if you have
to build something like a web server,
where you might have to stream out
100 megabyte video file, right?
So you wouldn't want to have to read
in the entire file and then write
it out because maybe you have thousands of
video files or millions on your servers.
And that would be an awful
lot of expensive RAM
to serve up that kind of thing.
So streams will let you pick apart those
video files chunk by chunk and only keep,
like kilobytes or maybe like a megabyte in
main memory instead of the whole thing.
So, in the Unix workshop I gave,
we came up with this little
example of a downloaded Moby Dick from
Project Gutenberg, which is gzipped.
We came up with this little pipeline
to count the number of times that whale
was said in Moby Dick.
And it's really a useful way of
thinking about breaking apart
problems on the command line.
And this is also kind of how you can
solve a lot of problems in Node.js in
a similar way.
So what that might look like
with some hypothetical,
with some real and some as yet
unwritten methods, is you could use
some methods like FSX create read stream
to read in that file chunk by chunk.
And it would return a readable
stream that you can call .pipe on.
And you can pipe that into createGunzip
which is a transformed stream that takes
gzipped input as output, so compressed
input and provides uncompressed output.
The next step might be a little
function that can split on whitespace,
and turn those any whitespace
character into a new line.
And then you could turn that output
into the input of a filter program,
that would search the number
of times that you see whale.
Then maybe you could have another thing
at the very end that just counts up
the number of occurrences.
So this is kind of like how you could
decompose the problem in a similar way
with the more Node.js style interface.
So this version in Unix this version yeah,
question?
>> So all of those commands will
be running at the same time?
>> They-
>> Or would they be sequential?
>> So some of these would operate
on chunks of information.
So like gzip, I think operates in chunks,
I don't know maybe like 500 bytes,
a kilobyte in size.
I'm not exactly sure.
But basically yes,
so every one of those steps is going
to be emitting little chunks of data.
Sometimes they have to buffer a little
bit up to like fill up like a chunk size.
This is especially the case with things
like compression and with encryption,
but otherwise, yeah, things are mostly
happening all at the same time and
sort of like feeding
through this pipeline.
>> For each chunk it like goes
through each step, like one at a time.
>> Yeah, each chunk, like goes in
order from one step into the next.
Yes, just like on the command line.
It's how it works.
So, here's an example
of just something that really simple
that you can try out yourself.
So if you make a file called greets.txt or
whatever you like,
you can just print it out.
So this is basically the Unix cat
commands without the concatenation part,
just print a file.
So if we type that out,
I'll call it print.js.
Maybe instead of hard coding the file,
I'll take the file name as an argument.
That'll be, so
would you createReadStream, and
then I'll read process argv2,
which is the first command
that you specify after the node and
then the file name and then the arguments.
And I'll call that pipe
to process.standard out.
And now if I run this program on a file,
maybe I'll
provide the program
itself as the input file.
So here we go, the program prints
its own source, that's kind of fun.
Also, if I had another file like
hello.txt, I could run that as well.
Great, so
we're just copying input into output.
It's all that this program does.
It's good place to start.